Blog: pgvector v0.5.0 (HNSW) post (#17152)
supabase/supabase: apps/www/_blog/2023-09-05-pgvector-v0-5-0-hnsw.mdx

<div>
  <img
    alt="dbpedia embeddings comparing ivfflat and hnsw queries-per-second using the 4XL compute addon (light)"
    className="dark:hidden"
    src="/images/blog/2023-09-05-pgvector-v0-5-0-hnsw/dbpedia-ivfflat-vs-hnsw-4xl--light.png"
  />
  <img
    alt="dbpedia embeddings comparing ivfflat and hnsw queries-per-second using the 4XL compute addon (dark)"
    className="hidden dark:block"
    src="/images/blog/2023-09-05-pgvector-v0-5-0-hnsw/dbpedia-ivfflat-vs-hnsw-4xl--dark.png"
  />
</div>

Switching to a 4XL compute add-on (with a 16-core CPU and 64GB of RAM) resulted in a 69% increase in QPS for a precision@10 of 0.99 compared to 2XL instance.

<div>
  <img
    alt="dbpedia embeddings comparing hnsw queries-per-second using the 2XL vs 4XL compute addon (light)"
    className="dark:hidden"
    src="/images/blog/2023-09-05-pgvector-v0-5-0-hnsw/dbpedia-hnsw-2xl-vs-4xl--light.png"
  />
  <img
    alt="dbpedia embeddings comparing hnsw queries-per-second using the 2XL vs 4XL compute addon (dark)"
    className="hidden dark:block"
    src="/images/blog/2023-09-05-pgvector-v0-5-0-hnsw/dbpedia-hnsw-2xl-vs-4xl--dark.png"
  />
</div>

> Furthermore, having 64GB of RAM is better suited for this type of workload because Postgres uses approximately 30-35GB of RAM to achieve optimal performance. With a 4XL setup, you not only have the capacity to store 1,000,000 vectors but also the flexibility to accommodate additional data or increase the number of vectors as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, having 64GB of RAM is better suited for this dataset because Postgres uses approximately 30-35GB of RAM to achieve optimal performance. With a 4XL setup, you not only have the capacity to store 1,000,000 vectors but also the flexibility to accommodate additional data or increase the number of vectors as needed.
```
